So we welcome you to the graduation of the 141st Class of Gilead, and as a reminder,
it's requested that no flash cameras be used during the program.
Any picture taken without flash must be taken from your seat location, no recordings
of any kind are permitted.
Similar telephone's electronic tablets or similar devices should not be used to transmit
any part of the program.
Program notes, whether heart copy or electronic, should not be distributed to others.
Now to begin our program, we'll open and sing song number 107, come to Jehovah's Mountain
and then Brother Troy Snyder, the member of the United States Branch Committee will offer
our opening prayer.
So we invite you to stand at song 107.
Special days finally arrive, and I know your family and close friends are pleased to
be here to share this special occasion.
Of course, all the rest are enjoying the moment with you because it's a spiritual
program.
Of course, now we broadcasted later in the whole Brotherhood, for the most part, able to
benefit from the special activity that for many years was only at Bethel itself.
Now, your class enjoyed the spring here in Patterson and enjoyed the summer at Patterson
at beautiful surroundings, and Jehovah sure to bless his earthly part of his organization
to have such a place to be educated.
However, now you'll be leaving for your assignments, and we're going to be entering in the fall
season.
So most years, that can be spectacular in upstate New York.
Of course, New England is renowned for the beauty of the leaves changing, these radiant
colors.
It's just Jehovah just amazes us with what can happen each fall season.
And put me in mind, because we're soon to experience it, and hopefully it'll be a good
season this year.
Of a picture I had in the past, and I appreciated it, but it's a beautiful picture on a lake
with trees surrounding the lake, very nice, and it was a fall scene.
And so all of these beautiful trees, the radiant colors around the water, it's just kind
of makes you think about the site there at Warwick and what's coming this fall.
And the reason I bring it up is because the caption for the picture was change.
The only thing permanent is change.
Is that true?
I see some heads going like that.
No, not all the time, but we can understand why imperfect humans would come to that conclusion,
but Jehovah is permanently the true God, thankfully that will never change.
And there's other things that don't change, take it to keepers that are already experiencing
Jehovah's favor, those holy angels, they didn't change.
But I bring it up because we've entered such a time where all these changes are going
on, and your class has been held during some historic changes.
It minimized that.
It's been quite phenomenal.
Now when you think about the class you're in and the historic things that are going on,
yours is the last class to be held when headquarters was in Brooklyn.
Now, had you thought about that last one?
Now many of us have already moved to Warwick, so the headquarters staff that will be living
there is just moving in on it.
We've been moving for months all these three different sites, and there's more moving
to come.
And we rejoice that it worked out as the construction project committee and the thousands that supported
them, brothers and sisters, things speed it up, and we got in there going in there a few
months early.
So that's a rejoicing moment.
Tours, as was mentioned in the broadcast this September, don't begin until next year,
but Jehovah was kind to you and brought you over this week to see some of Warwick, and
I see your big smiles, you enjoyed that, even though there's things that you might want
to come back in the future to see when the tours really do begin to function.
So we know you're enjoying the experience here of being educated, but if you think
about it, what does this tell us about Jehovah with moving, and I've been telling folks
for some months, years back, we've made the statement that, and this was according to
some studies that were done, the death of a loved one divorce and moving, three top
stressors in life.
And though there are moving can tell you, but it's right up there with death of a loved
one and divorce, so that's stress.
So you might wonder, well, why in the middle of all of this and these changes we knew were
going to happen, we still had the class of Gilead.
You still weren't going to, why did we not say, well, let's be reasonable and hold off
and have one after this stressful period's over, because the US branch committee gives
such beautiful support to headquarters as well.
And it just shows you Jehovah directs this organization, period.
He's governing it, and he just loves you, because this is addressed.
These comments primarily to you, once you're educated.
And that's just this warm and grace for you that you're invited, and you did enjoy it.
You have all the deep study and all of that, but all of that was going on around you.
I think you'd agreed, didn't affect how you were instructed and what was done.
So it tells us that Jehovah, and you can see it, especially in recent years, so much emphasis
on education.
And I'm reminded of what a lie who said here and beautiful thought here in Job chapter 36,
Job chapter 36.
And we're going to see where he makes this statement in verse 22, look, God is exalted
in his power, and then notice what instructor is like him.
Well, you're not supposed to try to come up with an answer.
That's a question that answers itself.
What instructor is like him?
There is none.
No instructor like to Jehovah God, no.
In fact, when you think about our Heavenly Father, the Grand Instructor, we're reminded
of Romans here, chapter 11, so if you would please find Romans chapter 11.
And this reveals to us why the only one that never needed education or instruction is
our Heavenly Father, Jehovah God.
And Jesus would tell you that as well.
He was instructed by his father personally, first born of all creation.
And when you think about the warm and grace in his love for your hair, because I know
you're closer to Jehovah than when you first arrived, has to happen with this course,
with the fine instructors we have.
In Romans chapter 11, verse 33 and verse 34, oh, the depth of God's riches and wisdom
and knowledge.
How unsearchable his judgments are and beyond tracing out his ways are for who has come
to know Jehovah's mind or who has become his advisor.
So you have to think about that, let that sink in.
The riches of his wisdom and knowledge.
It's just unfathomable.
You just have to let that sink in.
The depth of God's riches, wisdom and knowledge.
There's no way to search out his judgments, can't trace out his ways.
That's why we adore and worship Jehovah God.
And you can't know his mind, none of us can, until he reveals it.
That's why sometimes you'll hear brothers and sisters sincerely, so I'm sure, kind
of speculating and, okay, somebody thinks they know Jehovah's mind and beyond what he
gave his hair, okay, but we don't follow creatures.
We followed Jehovah God because he's our grand instructor and you're a lot closer to
him, assuring yourself of being taught by him when you get into your assignment, as
well as on into eternity.
Now there's some fine thoughts prepared for you from brothers to follow.
I thought I'd just give you a brief preview just to get you to focus and the rest and
attendance will be able to do that, but this is for your benefit.
You're going to find out about a cloud, okay, that's all I'm telling you.
You're going to find out about an enemy and it's not Satan in this particular theme.
You're going to find out about testing Jehovah out.
And then we always enjoy your experiences, so we look forward to that and I know the
pressures on you look forward to being finished and successfully so.
And then nice interviews with some of you about how are you going to use your gift?
And then the principal talked about making good use of your time.
So some nice thoughts and we look forward to the presentation by these brothers.
First we have Brother Ralph Walls, who's a helper to the Personnel Committee and the
member of the United States Branch Committee and Brother Walls has the theme C, the Cloud.
First of all, I'd like to say on behalf of the United States Branch Committee, we really
do rejoice with you and it's been a real pleasure to get to know some of you, hopefully most
of you.
But your example of love and appreciation for Jehovah and the earthly part of his organization
is really motivating.
One couple in this class experienced what was a very emotional time just after learning
of their invitation.
The sister's father fell ill and then he died.
It was a real challenge for them but they accepted the invitation to come to Gilead.
A brother was special pioneering in his branch territory and then he was invited to the
branch temporarily.
Another change came, he was reassigned as a special pioneer and then there were adjustments
for some of the special pioneers to regular pioneer and he thought, well I'll go back
to regular pioneering.
He was invited to Gilead but his father died.
He came, he's here.
We could go on with other examples.
Now what does this have to do with the Cloud?
Well let's see, please turn with me to Numbers chapter 9 and we'll read together beginning
in verse 17, Numbers 9, 17, whenever the Cloud lifted from the tent, the Israelites would
promptly depart and the place where the Cloud would remain there is where the Israelites
wouldn't camp.
At the order of Jehovah, the Israelites would depart and at the order of Jehovah, they
would camp.
As long as the Cloud remained over the Tabernacle, they would remain in camp.
When the Cloud would stay over the Tabernacle for many days, the Israelites would obey
Jehovah and not depart.
Sometimes the Cloud would remain for a few days over the Tabernacle.
At the order of Jehovah, they would remain in camp and at the order of Jehovah, they
would depart.
Sometimes the Cloud would remain only from evening until morning and when the Cloud lifted
in the morning, they would depart.
Whether it was day or night, when the Cloud lifted, they would depart.
Whether it was two days a month or longer, as long as the Cloud stayed over the Tabernacle,
the Israelites remained in camp and would not depart.
But when it lifted, they would depart.
At the order of Jehovah, they would camp and at the order of Jehovah, they would depart.
They kept their obligation to Jehovah at the order of Jehovah through Moses, interesting.
That phrase at the order of Jehovah appears seven times.
You see, Jehovah was in total control.
When that Cloud moved, the nation moved, and did you notice how they would do so promptly?
Now whether it was a few days a month or longer, if the commandment was to leave in the
middle of the night or during the morning or day, it made no difference.
They would move.
Why?
They saw the Cloud.
Now, imagine a camp of about three million people.
The watchmen have seen the fiery Cloud at night.
It's lifted up from the Tabernacle and it's pointing to the North.
Suddenly, after a year of camping in one spot, the shrill notes of a silver trumpet cleave
the air and after a brief interval in which the camp waits to see if there would be fluctuating
blasts which signal the breaking up of the camp, they move.
Now that means a whole camp of Israel changed its position promptly, three million people.
Mothers shaking their children out of sleep, daughters packing up belonging sons, rounding
up the family, livestock fathers, putting all of the items on the animals.
And in a little time, the whole camp would be on the march to who knows where they certainly
didn't until they made their next encampment.
They see the Cloud and they knew that it was Jehovah who's directing them.
Now you folks are examples of those who see the Cloud.
You know that Jehovah, not the imperfect men that he's using, is in total control.
And we humans find it generally difficult for change, as you heard in our dear brother
Morse's comments, but Jehovah's people, from the days of Abraham down to our day, have
seen that we've had to be humble, flexible and obedient.
We must maintain spiritual vision.
We have to see the Cloud.
Psalm 78, 14, reminds us that it was Jehovah who used that Cloud.
There was a 39-year-old sister, single sister serving at Bethel for eight years.
And she made herself available for whoever she could best serve.
While she was asked to attend SKE, the school for Kingdom Evangelizers, and she received
an assignment that was shocking to her, to a country where the work is restricted.
Single sister.
She said this,
I'm extremely grateful to Jehovah for this undeserved blessing and also for the trust and support
that I've been given.
I'm married couple who served together at Bethel for 25 years.
He served before that, totaling 32 years.
They were recently assigned to special pioneers after all those years at Bethel.
You know what they said?
I'll quote them.
We have feelings, of course.
Why would anyone want to leave Bethel?
It's easy to forget that when we came to Bethel, we had a preference.
But we agreed to be assigned anywhere.
Lovingly, Jehovah watches how we display submission and loyalty to his organization.
Now in the United States branch territory, there's an ongoing effort to better utilize
Kingdom Halls.
And this has resulted in many publishers being assigned to different congregations, more
to come.
Now commenting on the general benefits, here's what one circuit overseer said.
This lets the friends know how to rely on Jehovah.
This woke a lot of people up.
Learn obedience, submissiveness, and how to follow direction.
The elders and ministerial servants did an excellent job of demonstrating this.
The friends will even more learn to a greater degree as they assimilate into their new congregations.
Interesting.
Think about it.
During the wilderness trek, Jehovah might have moved the cloud in the middle of the night,
and their locations may not have seemed logical from a human standpoint.
Why would Jehovah do such a thing?
We don't know.
Maybe he could see the movement of enemy camps of Israel, whatever the case.
It's vital that they would have responded promptly.
All of us today need to see the cloud as we get closer to the Great Tribulation.
The time is now when we have to obey and not ask, why did they make that decision?
As one traveling overseer said, don't put a question mark where Jehovah puts a period.
You, dear students, have already shown prompt response to direction that Jehovah's organization
has provided.
Please do it more fully.
And to the extent that you do, Jehovah will continue to bless you.
Don't see the men that Jehovah's using.
See the cloud.
And may all of us do the same.
Thank you very much, Brother Walls, that was a very faith strengthening, and I already
have to ask for forgiveness.
I've got to mention my good friend's theme, but he forgave me in the back, in the preview.
Intriguing theme from Brother Samuel heard of the member of the governing body.
Let the memories sustain you.
Earlier when Brother Morse didn't introduce my talk, I started to go home.
And then I remembered, he's imperfect.
Thank God for the gifts of memory.
If we couldn't recall the who, the what, the where of our everyday lives, our lives would
be unmanageable.
We have a short-term memory.
We have a long-term, episodic memory, our semantic memory.
Sometimes we look at our picture album on a rainy afternoon, and what we see ignites
memories.
The school is over, but your memory bank is very much alive.
Now whether we like it or not, sometimes different memories of past events pop into our
heads for no apparent reason.
Smells ring bells.
A sister spoke to me when we were in an elevator, and she said, you make me think of my father.
My dad, I thought it couldn't be my looks, and she's white and I'm black.
It couldn't be my voice because I haven't said anything yet.
I found out it was the old-spice cologne that I had on.
Smells ring bells.
One happy thought can spark an unending chain of things you experienced in school, it's
like being in school all over again.
Now one or two of us may have heard of Solomon, she was chef's key.
He was born in Russia about 1866.
He had a memory so perfect that he could recall every minute of his life and that in graphic
detail.
His talent for remembering was discovered when he was just a young lad of 19 years.
Now correct me if I'm wrong.
I don't think there is a solitary soul in this class, male or female, with the recallability
of Solomon, she was chef's key.
Nevertheless you do have memories, and these memories will sustain you in the days ahead
as you work for Jehovah in his service.
Now you're not going to remember everything you've seen and heard in class during the
last five months.
Why?
There's just no need.
An authority by the name of Aishish Rempura made this comment.
See what you think about it.
The human brain is not good at remembering long lists of unrelated numbers, dozens of
nonsense words, or lengthy grocery lists, for these tasks little more is required than
pin and paper.
Now some in the medical profession have said, and I quote, we all carry in our personal
memory banks, pictures and memories of everything we have seen, done and heard since birth.
Others think that some things are so ordinary, so non-essential that they are not locked
in our memory banks, but are cast off.
What do you think?
You students.
Like what you want.
There's no way for us to know, not now, maybe later.
Here's something you no doubt will agree with.
Jehovah can remember whatever he chooses to remember, and he can forget whatever he wants
to forget.
Now there's a mind that tops Solomon Shirisetsky.
Jehovah's memory, our mind, is unfathomable, and here's an interesting comment from
the Bible.
It's found here in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 16, it says, for who has come to
know the mind of Jehovah so that he may instruct him, but we do have the mind of Christ.
No, we can't know in detail God's mind.
He permits us to know just a little bit of it, and we're happy for that.
But here's an interesting thought too.
He values us so much that he remembers every detail of our faithful service, our genetic
code he remembers that, and all our years of memories and experiences God can recall.
Should you die?
He will restore all this back in your new brain and body that he gives you.
How do we know that?
Well, Malachi chapter 3 and verse 16 makes a comment.
This is what it says.
At that time, those who feared Jehovah spoke with one another, each one with his companion
and Jehovah kept paying attention and listening, and now note, a book of remembrance was written
before him for those fearing Jehovah and for those meditating on his name.
God's thoughts are so much higher than ours.
In the Bible book of Isaiah, it is stated in the 55th chapter, for my thoughts are not your
thoughts, and your ways are not my ways declares Jehovah.
Whereas the heavens are higher than the earth, so my ways are higher than your ways and
my thoughts than your thoughts.
So we can never fully understand all of Jehovah's thoughts.
He gives us the ability with the help of the Holy Spirit to recall the thoughts we need
to apply in our lives in order to gain His pleasure.
So we need to do what?
We need to pray for Holy Spirit.
Now each of our brothers who will speak to you today and those who have already had something
to say prayed for Holy Spirit before they ever stepped out here.
I prayed at length back there for Holy Spirit.
So the book comes out of my mouth, will build you up and not tear you down.
So the book comes out of my mouth, will honor Jehovah and please him and be a source of
encouragement to all of my brothers and sisters who are able to hear what I have to say.
So all of our brothers pray to that degree before they step out on this stage before an
audience of your caliber, especially.
We want to make sure that what is said will be good for you.
So God gives us the ability to understand a few things because of Holy Spirit.
So we say to you, pray, please for Holy Spirit, the Spirit will refresh your memories and
stimulate your mental powers, it's the Holy Spirit that will help you remember what
you need to remember when you need to remember something.
Now note this promise of Jesus, a John chapter 14 and verses 25 and 26.
I have spoken these things to you while I am still with you, but the helper, the Holy
Spirit, which the Father will send in my name.
That one will teach you all things and bring back to your mind all the things I told you.
In the weeks ahead, let the warm, beautiful memories of Gilead sustain you and thank
Jehovah for it.
They gave me nine minutes, I used 842.
I just had to delete about four things I was considering the same, but anyway the translators
will have fun with the Old Spice, brought back memories for me.
I used to love Old Spice by the way, used it a long time and so rather James Cawson, one
of the structures with theocratic schools, as the theme ego is your enemy.
There are a number of definitions for the expression ego, but for our brief discussion this
morning, we want to focus on the definition of ego as it's used in egotist, an unhealthy
belief in our own importance, the notion of ourselves that distorts reality.
Now we're not picking that subject because we've noticed any particular problem and believe
me, it's just been the opposite.
But there is a tendency or a leaning that we have as imperfect people to become just
a little bit too self-assured, maybe a little bit too full of ourselves.
And that's why the apostle Paul, when he was talking about putting on the new personality
Romans chapter 12, he gave this reminder in verse 3.
He said, for through the undeserved kindness given to me, I tell everyone there among
you not to think more of himself than it's necessary to think, but to think so as to
have a sound mind.
Now without going further we can see the balance.
If we have the right view of ourselves, well we have a sound mind, but as soon as we have
an unbalanced view, then we have an unsound mind.
We have a tendency to become unbalanced, but the culture we live in today also fans
the flames of ego.
For example, it's never been easier today to talk oneself up, to puff oneself up, to
brag oneself up, to thousands if not millions of so-called followers on social media.
But humility will help us to see that perhaps others are not quite as interested in our
accomplishments as we are.
So a self-worth is realizing that you have value.
Self-importance is wanting everyone else to know it.
Open your Bibles, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter 8.
1 Corinthians chapter 8, and we want to give just four brief reminders.
1 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 1.
It says, knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.
It's not enough to be a student at the beginning.
It's a position that you must assume for life.
It's impossible to learn what one thinks he already knows.
The second we tell ourselves that we have graduated, learning grinds to a halt.
A good mind is certainly a fine asset, and still it could become a weakness if overconfidence
causes us to develop an inflated opinion of ourselves.
Now you haven't had that happen, and likely it won't happen.
But after you graduate, as a Gilead graduate, you will find that people will compliment
you, perhaps they will even flatter you excessively.
And when that happens, try to remember this.
A smart man believes only half of what people say about him.
A wise man knows which half to believe.
So continue to let the Word of God and the Spirit of God make you more like the Son of God.
Proverbs 10, 14, those who are wise, treasure up knowledge.
But don't let the knowledge go to your head.
Just to your head.
Let it go to your heart.
Second area, turn to Matthew chapter 20.
And you can leave your Bible open here, if you'd like, Matthew 20, verse 28, and this goes
right to the heart of your Gilead assignment.
All right?
Jesus said this.
He said, just as a son of man came not to be ministered to, but to minister.
And so Jesus measured greatness in terms of service, not status.
He willingly took up menial tasks that everyone else tried to avoid.
He would wash feet.
He would take care of children.
Jesus, the Bible says, emptied himself.
But you know what?
You can't empty yourself if you're full of yourself.
Now imagine that for every person you met, you found some way to help them, a way that
entirely fitted them left you entirely out of the picture.
The cumulative effect that this would have on the brotherhood over a period of time would
be profound.
And it's not an original idea.
You see, Jehovah God, Jesus Christ looked for opportunities to do for others.
And it's not about making someone look good.
It's about providing the support so that others can be good.
Strive to be self-less, not selfish.
Philippians 2 verse 3 says, do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but
with humility, consider others superior to you.
Now back to Matthew, this time, chapter 20, beginning in verse 25.
This is the third area.
Jesus, talking to His disciples, said, you know that the rulers of the nations lorded
over them and the great men wheeled authority over them.
This must not be the way among you, but whoever wants to become great among, you must be
your minister and whoever wants to be first among, you must be your slave.
Now, you're going to leave here.
Some of you are going to be put in positions of oversight, but all of you, brothers and
sisters, are expected to work as a team.
So try to remember these things.
Having authority is not necessarily the same as being an authority.
Having the right is not necessarily the same as being right.
Impressing people is different from being truly impressive.
And learn the difference between prominence and significance.
See, some of the most significant people in our organization are the ones that have almost
no prominence.
They're the ones that are showing integrity, standing firm for the kingdom, setting an
example in the ministry, and making sacrifices that may be only Jehovah, Jesus, and a holy
angel's no.
They're significant.
So don't get caught up into the trap of jockeying for position or prominence in the organization,
because if you do, that ego that is developing will cause you to become a minister to the
brothers and sisters that have to work under your direction.
The watchtower put it like this, it said, ego always be clouds the issue and obscures
the vision.
And remember this too, a teen player does not obsess about his own image.
He doesn't treat people with contempt, doesn't need star treatment, doesn't fight, doesn't
lord it over, isn't condescending, and doesn't marvel at his own awesomeness.
Colossians 323, whatever you're doing, work at it whole soul for Jehovah, not to men.
And finally, one last point, and this is founded 1 Corinthians 1012, we're not going
to look it up because there's simply not time.
But it says this, says let him that thinks he's standing beware that he does not fall.
Humble people are meek, they're not weak.
Spiritual maturity is becoming like Jesus in the way we think, feel and act.
But self deception is easy.
Beware of the disease of me.
Even the best qualities will have a short shelf life if the subscription is not renewed.
It's not enough to do the right thing.
You must do the right thing for the right reason.
James 410 says, humble yourselves in the eyes of Jehovah and he will exalt you.
So in conclusion, it's admirable to reach out Jehovah's organization to take on additional
responsibilities to make sacrifices.
But it is no less impressive an accomplishment to become a better person, happier, balanced,
content, humble and selfless.
But to do so, we must remember, ego is your enemy.
Thank you very much for the coffin, we appreciate it that.
Next to the brother William Mellon Fountain, who's a helper to the teaching committee, has
the theme, test Jehovah out and be tested.
You students of the 141st class of Gilead have been putting Jehovah to the test for years.
It sounds scary, but you've been doing it in a good way, a way that honors Jehovah God.
On the other hand, the Israelites often tested Jehovah in a bad way.
Psalm 106, verse 14, declares, they gave way to their selfish desires in the wilderness.
They tested God in the desert.
Yes, they tested Jehovah by their lack of faith, by their disobedience to what they had
agreed to do in the law covenant.
And it was all to their own detriment.
And Jesus commented on this point of not testing Jehovah God when He replied to Satan at
Matthew 4.7, you recall the words, you must not put Jehovah your God to the test.
Jesus refused to do anything that would put His life in jeopardy, do something reckless
just to please a challenge from the devil.
That would be a wrong way to put Jehovah God to the test.
However, as students of this class, you know about Malachi and you know that there is
an invitation in the scriptures to test Jehovah out.
Let's look up the scripture together.
Malachi, chapter 3, verse 10, it had to do with the Israelites and tithing, obeying Jehovah's
command.
Malachi 3.10 says, bring the entire tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food
in my house.
And test me out, please, in this regard, Jehovah of Army says, to see whether I will not
open to you the floodgates of the heavens and pour out on you a blessing until there
is nothing lacking.
That's quite a statement.
Jehovah said, test me out, please, in this regard, in regard to being obedient, to accept
Jehovah's invitation, to trust Jehovah and his promise to bless them.
In regard to not being tight-fisted and greedy, after all, everything the Israelites had came
from Jehovah.
They were merely asked to give back a small portion of the things that Jehovah God had
provided for them.
You know there was no penalty for not tithing.
The arrangement, actually, when you study, it had a lot to do with the heart condition
of the people and their appreciation for all of the good things that Jehovah did for them.
Obedience would result in blessings and abundance of good things, bumper crops.
No one in the land would be lacking.
Jehovah's blessing would be on them in all of their undertakings.
But think about the word picture that Malachi paints in the last part of verse 10, the power
of that word picture, the floodgates of the heavens being opened and pouring out blessings.
What comes to your mind when you hear that expression, the floodgates of the heavens being
opened?
For me, Genesis 7, 11, and it says, in the 600 year of Noah's life, in the second
month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the springs of the vast
watery, deep, burst open and the floodgates of the heavens were opened.
Just imagine the entire planet being submerged in blessings from Jehovah.
No one anywhere in want or in need.
That's the promise from Jehovah.
It's coming and soon.
The invitation to test Jehovah out as set forth in Malachi chapter 3 verse 10 was given
to the Israelites as we know it was not given to Christians as far as tithing is concerned.
But there is a principle connected to tithing that has special meaning for us today.
Consider this quote about testing God.
It says, you can humbly test Him in a proper sense.
How?
He promised a blessing, well, such as Malachi 3, 10, bring the whole tithe in and I will bless
you abundantly.
For us, it could be Matthew 6, 33, seek first the kingdom and all these other things will
be added to you.
But the quote goes on, when you obey Him, you make a test of God as if asking, will He
bless me?
In response, He puts Himself under obligation to do so, keeping His promise, thus God's
allowing you to test Him out underscores your conviction that He will bless you abundantly.
And that's taken from the book, Live with Jehovah's Day in Mine on page 183.
The fact is that when we put Jehovah to the test regarding His promises, we are also putting
our own faith in His promises to the test.
This has been and still is your experience.
By seeking first the kingdom, you gillied students, haven't you been blessed abundantly?
Materially, you have what you need, spiritually a super abundance of blessings have been poured
out on you.
Have you not received blessings beyond measure in acquaintances, fellowship, happiness,
enjoy the people now that you're close to in your class and also here at Patterson?
You know what life is all about.
You know what the purpose of life is.
Why we're here to serve God, to know Jehovah and to learn about our great creator and
the way we should worship Him.
And what the blessings that we're receiving, all of the good things we have, it's just
a foretaste of things to come, things in the near future.
And I might add, you students are not the only ones who are testing Jehovah out.
I found this quote interesting from the watchtower about another group.
The watchtower stated, most of those who have assisted with the construction work in New
York could have found reasons not to volunteer.
However, they put Jehovah to the test just as he invites all of us to do and have they
not received rich blessings from Jehovah in return, just ask them, they'll tell you.
And then the last part I like very much.
And do we not love them for their faith?
Absolutely.
Another group, the anointed test Jehovah and they are being tested.
Revelation chapter 2 verse 10, prove yourself faithful even to death, the test, but the reward
and I will give you the crown of life.
Isn't that remarkable?
The promises that God makes, that principle applies to all of us.
When we make our dedication and our baptize, we vow to serve Jehovah God forever.
You know that.
We know that.
But there is an interesting point connected to that.
There is more involved than just our person.
Consider this comment from the watchtower.
From that time on, dedication and baptism, everything we have belongs to Jehovah.
Now some may separate their person from their possessions, not realizing that really,
when you give yourself to God, it's all you are and all that you have.
And yet here is where the tithe or the principle of the tithe comes in.
Still, and this is part of that quote, from the watchtower of 2007, December 15, still,
he allows us to choose a portion of what we have, a symbolic tithe, to use in his service.
It is whatever our circumstances allow and the second part is touching.
Then our heart impels us to use.
Isn't that wonderful on Jehovah's part?
He doesn't set forth a specific requirement.
He allows us to display our heartfelt appreciation for him and for all the good things that
he does for us.
The heart is truly involved.
We test Jehovah God out by doing what Proverbs 23, 26 says,
My son, do give your heart to me, and may your eyes take pleasure in my ways.
We give Jehovah God our heart, and we give him everything else that we have as the needs
arise.
What a wonderful opportunity we have.
It gives us this opportunity of showing how much we appreciate our great God and how much
we trust him.
In this interesting statement was made, to fail to give Jehovah our best is to deprive
ourselves of his blessings, isn't that true?
You brothers and sisters of the 141st Class of Gilead, you are not depriving yourselves
of anything.
You have the spiritual blessings and you have what you need materially, no doubt about it.
And as you continue testing Jehovah out by responding to his promises, the quality of
your faith will continue to be tested and refined.
And so keep on testing Jehovah out.
Keep on doing the best you can to obey him, to comply, to show your faith in his promises,
and then you will also be tested to your eternal joy and happiness.
Thank you, or the male and female for that fine council.
We invite you all to stand now, sing song number 43, stay awake, stand firm, grow mighty,
song number 43.